---
title: "Performance analysis for overflow loss systems of processor-sharing queues"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2015-04-26-chan2015_infocom
excerpt: 'Applies the Information Exchange Surrogate Approximation to the blocking probability evaluation of overflow loss networks of processor-sharing queues.'
date: 2015-04-26
venue: 'IEEE Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM)'
paperurl: '/files/chan2015_infocom.pdf'
citation: '**Y.-C. Chan**, J. Guo, E. W. M. Wong, and M. Zukerman, “Performance analysis for overflow loss systems of processor-sharing queues,” in *2015 IEEE Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM)*, (Hong Kong), IEEE, Apr. 2015.'
---
Applies the Information Exchange Surrogate Approximation to the blocking probability evaluation of overflow loss networks of processor-sharing queues.

**Abstract:** Overflow loss systems have wide applications in telecommunications and multimedia systems. In this paper, we consider an overflow loss system consisting of a set of finite-buffer processor-sharing (PS) queues, and develop effective methods for evaluation of its blocking probability. For such a problem, an existing approximation of the blocking probability is based on decomposition of the system into independent PS queues. We provide a new approximation which instead performs decomposition on a surrogate model of the original system, and demonstrate via extensive numerical results that our new approximation is more accurate and robust than the existing approach. We also examine the sensitivity of the blocking probability to the service time distribution, and demonstrate that an exponential distribution is a good approximation for a wide range of service time distributions.

**DOI**: [10.1109/INFOCOM.2015.7218518](https://doi.org/10.1109/INFOCOM.2015.7218518)

[Download paper here](/files/chan2015_infocom.pdf)

**Recommended citation**:<br/>**Y.-C. Chan**, J. Guo, E. W. M. Wong, and M. Zukerman, “Performance analysis for overflow loss systems of processor-sharing queues,” in *2015 IEEE Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM)*, (Hong Kong), IEEE, Apr. 2015.