---
title: "Energy efficiency-QoS tradeoff in cellular networks with base-station sleeping"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2017-12-04-wu2017_globecom
excerpt: 'Models a network of base stations, with each BS as a processor-sharing queue with vacations (sleeping).'
date: 2017-12-04
venue: 'GLOBECOM 2017 - 2017 IEEE Global Communications Conference'
paperurl: '/files/wu2017_globecom.pdf'
citation: 'J. Wu, E. W. M. Wong, **Y.-C. Chan**, and M. Zukerman, “Energy efficiency-QoS tradeoff in cellular networks with base-station sleeping,” in *GLOBECOM 2017 - 2017 IEEE Global Communications Conference*, IEEE, Dec. 2017.'
---
Models a network of base stations, with each BS as a processor-sharing queue with vacations (sleeping).

**Abstract:** Energy efficiency and Quality of Service (QoS) are two important considerations for the design and planning of cellular networks. One effective approach to handle the tradeoff between power consumption and QoS is to switch some of the Base Stations (BSs) to sleep mode when traffic load is low. In this paper, we model each BS as a processor-sharing queue with vacations, and investigate the performance of three BS sleeping schemes, namely the isolated scheme in which each BS switches mode based on its own load, the cooperative scheme in which traffic is allowed to overflow from sleeping BSs to neighboring active BSs, and a combination of both schemes. We propose a robust, scalable and computationally efficient analytical method to evaluate QoS metrics (including mean delay and blocking probability) and power consumption for each scheme and validate their accuracy by simulations. We also demonstrate the power consumption and QoS trade-off by extensive and statistically reliable experiments, and compare the performance of the three schemes under different network conditions.

**DOI**: [10.1109/GLOCOM.2017.8254042](https://doi.org/10.1109/GLOCOM.2017.8254042)

[Download paper here](/files/wu2017_globecom.pdf)

**Recommended citation**:<br/>J. Wu, E. W. M. Wong, **Y.-C. Chan**, and M. Zukerman, “Energy efficiency-QoS tradeoff in cellular networks with base-station sleeping,” in *GLOBECOM 2017 - 2017 IEEE Global Communications Conference*, IEEE, Dec. 2017.