---
title: "Blocking probability evaluation for non-hierarchical overflow loss systems"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2017-12-18-chan2018_tcom
excerpt: 'An in-depth introduction to the Information Exchange Surrogate Approximation (IESA) for evaluating blocking probability in non-hierarchical overflow loss networks (NH-OLSs).'
date: 2017-12-18
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Communications'
paperurl: '/files/chan2018_tcom.pdf'
citation: '**Y.-C. Chan** and E. W. M. Wong, “Blocking probability evaluation for non-hierarchical overflow loss systems,” *IEEE Transactions on Communications*, vol. 66, pp. 2022–2036, May 2018.'
---
An in-depth introduction to the Information Exchange Surrogate Approximation (IESA) for evaluating blocking probability in non-hierarchical overflow loss networks (NH-OLSs).

**Abstract:** Non-hierarchical overflow loss systems (NH-OLSs) with mutual overflow have applications in many telecommunications and service systems, e.g., cellular networks, video-on-demand, emergency healthcare, or cloud services. In this paper, we make fundamental contributions in teletraffic modeling for blocking probability evaluation in NH-OLSs. These are based on the development of the well-known decomposition methodology, which decomposes an NH-OLS into independent subsystems and applies a suitable node model to each subsystem. In particular, we provide new both theoretical and numerical results involving both new and existing approximation methods. We show that these results cover a broad range of NH-OLSs, including those with heterogeneous arrival processes, server group size, and/or routing, with both Poisson and non-Poisson arrivals of fresh requests. Our theoretical results include the first scalable asymptotic exactness results for NH-OLSs. Our new approximations include the first computationally efficient and fairly accurate approximation for NH-OLSs with both mutual overflow and non-Poisson input with asymptotic exactness properties.

**DOI**: [10.1109/TCOMM.2017.2784450](https://doi.org/10.1109/TCOMM.2017.2784450)

[Download paper here](/files/chan2018_tcom.pdf)

**Recommended citation**:<br/>**Y.-C. Chan** and E. W. M. Wong, “Blocking probability evaluation for non-hierarchical overflow loss systems,” *IEEE Transactions on Communications*, vol. 66, pp. 2022–2036, May 2018.