---
title: "Evaluating Non-Hierarchical Overflow Loss Systems Using Teletraffic Theory and Neural Networks"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-01-18-chan2021_comml
excerpt: 'Proposes hybrid learning combining the Information Exchange Surrogate Approximation and neural networks for blocking probability evaluation in non-hierarchical overflow loss systems.'
date: 2021-01-18
venue: 'IEEE Communications Letters'
paperurl: '/files/chan2021_comml.pdf'
citation: '**Y.-C. Chan**, E. W. M. Wong, and C. S. Leung, “Evaluating non-hierarchical overflow loss systems using teletraffic theory and neural networks,” *IEEE Communications Letters*, vol. 25, pp. 1486–1490, May 2021.'
---
Proposes hybrid learning combining the Information Exchange Surrogate Approximation and neural networks for blocking probability evaluation in non-hierarchical overflow loss systems.

**Abstract:** The Information Exchange Surrogate Approximation (IESA) is a powerful tool for estimating the blocking probability of non-hierarchical overflow loss systems (NH-OLSs), but can exhibit significant approximation errors in some cases. This letter proposes a new method of evaluating the blocking probability of generic NH-OLSs by combining machine learning with IESA. Specifically, we modify IESA by using neural networks (NN) to tune a newly introduced parameter in the IESA algorithm. Extensive numerical results for a simple NH-OLS show that our new hybrid method, which we call IESA+NN, is more accurate and robust than both base IESA and direct NN-based approximation of NH-OLS blocking probability, while remaining much more computationally efficient than computer simulation. Furthermore, due to the generic nature of our technique, IESA+NN is also easily extensible to more specialized stochastic models for communications and service systems, where base IESA has previously been applied.

**DOI**: [10.1109/LCOMM.2021.3052683](https://doi.org/10.1109/LCOMM.2021.3052683)

[Download paper here](/files/chan2021_comml.pdf)

**Recommended citation**:<br/>**Y.-C. Chan**, E. W. M. Wong, and C. S. Leung, “Evaluating non-hierarchical overflow loss systems using teletraffic theory and neural networks,” *IEEE Communications Letters*, vol. 25, pp. 1486–1490, May 2021.